---
layout: post
title: "Designing, building and evaluating visible light data communication system for underwater applications"
date: 2018-10-10
---

[comment]: ## Designing, building and evaluating visible light data communication system for underwater applications

*Supervisor: Assoc. prof. Arnfinn A. Eielsen*

This project will focus on short range optical communications under water.

Visible light communications (VLC) uses the visible light spectrum from 380 nm to 780 nm to for wireless data communications. A new industrial standard known as IEEE 802.15.7 outlines the use various modulation methods for communications using this spectrum --- enabling an optical networked communication system for short range data links. This project aims to develop a single hop data communication link using common LED lights, following the IEEE 802.15.7 standard.

A potential extension to the project is to work out how to power the receiver using the current generated by photo voltaic cells due to the radiated light emitted by the transmitter.

One potential use for this technology is proximal data transfer for remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) or autonomous underwater vehicle (AUVs) for certain sub-sea operations.

**The exact scope, content and outcomes of the project will be agreed upon with the students considering their background and interests.**

### Expected outcomes
- Understanding VLC methods and the IEEE 802.15.7 standard.
- Designing and constructing an on-off keying modulator/demodulator
- Designing and constructing a light intensity modulator/demodulator.
- Designing data transmitter and receiver hardware and software.
- Designing a data link transmitting data at a rate at least 100 kbit/s in air.
- Testing the data link in air and under water --- determining the operational limitations.

#### Resources
- Digital and analog circuit components and ICs.
- Micro-controller development kit.
- LEDs and photodiodes.
- Manufacturing of printed circuit boards.

#### References
1. http://visiblelightcomm.com/what-is-visible-light-communication-vlc/
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjqSgsKbagQ
3. https://www.maximintegrated.com/en/app-notes/index.mvp/id/4439
